Abstract
The subject of quantum computing brings together ideas from classical information theory,
computer science, and quantum physics. This review aims to summarize not just quantum
computing, but the whole subject of quantum information theory. Information can be
identified as the most general thing which must propagate from a cause to an effect. It
therefore has a fundamentally important role in the science of physics. However, the
mathematical treatment of information, especially information processing, is quite recent,
dating from the mid-20th century. This has meant that the full significance of information as
a basic concept in physics is only now being discovered. This is especially true in quantum
mechanics. The theory of quantum information and computing puts this significance on
a firm footing, and has led to some profound and exciting new insights into the natural
world. Among these are the use of quantum states to permit the secure transmission of
classical information (quantum cryptography), the use of quantum entanglement to permit
reliable transmission of quantum states (teleportation), the possibility of preserving quantum
coherence in the presence of irreversible noise processes (quantum error correction), and the
use of controlled quantum evolution for efficient computation (quantum computation). The
common theme of all these insights is the use of quantum entanglement as a computational
resource.
It turns out that information theory and quantum mechanics fit together very well.
In order to explain their relationship, this review begins with an introduction to classical
information theory and computer science, including Shannon’s theorem, error correcting
codes, Turing machines and computational complexity. The principles of quantum
mechanics are then outlined, and the Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen (EPR) experiment
described. The EPR–Bell correlations, and quantum entanglement in general, form the
essential new ingredient which distinguishes quantum from classical information theory
and, arguably, quantum from classical physics.
Basic quantum information ideas are next outlined, including qubits and data
compression, quantum gates, the ‘no cloning’ property and teleportation. Quantum
cryptography is briefly sketched. The universal quantum computer (QC) is described, based
on the Church–Turing principle and a network model of computation. Algorithms for such a
computer are discussed, especially those for finding the period of a function, and searching a
random list. Such algorithms prove that a QC of sufficiently precise construction is not only20:12